---
page_title: "Hurricane Electric DNS Provider"
description: |-
  DNS records management for [dns.he.net](https://dns.he.net). 
---

# Schemas Provider

This provider provides data sources and resources to manage [dns.he.net](https://dns.he.net).

## Maturity

> _The code in this repository should be considered experimental. Documentation is only
> available alongside the code. It comes with no support, but we are keen to receive
> feedback on the product and suggestions on how to improve it, though we cannot commit
> to resolution of any particular issue. No SLAs are available. It is not meant to be used
> in production environments, and the risks are unknown/high._

## Important updates

### Release v0.1.1

**Changelog summary:**

- Added `dns-he-net_domain_zone` & `dns-he-net_domain_zones` data sources to retrieve domain zones in the account
- Added `dns-he-net_arpa_zone` & `dns-he-net_arpa_zones` data sources to retrieve ARPA zones in the account
- Added `dns-he-net_network_prefix` & `dns-he-net_network_prefixes` data sources to retrieve the delegated network prefixes in the account
- Deprecated `dns-he-net_zone` & `dns-he-net_zones` data sources in favor of `dns-he-net_domain_zone`

#### Deprecation of `dns-he-net_zone` & `dns-he-net_zones` data sources

The `dns-he-net_zone` and `dns-he-net_zones` data sources are being deprecated in favor of:
- `dns-he-net_domain_zone`: This data source retrieves a single domain zone in the account, identified by its `zone_id`
- `dns-he-net_domain_zones`: This data source retrieves all domain zones in the account

This change is being made to have a more consistent naming convention across the provider,
as the term "zone" can be ambiguous and may refer to both domain zones and ARPA zones.  
**Expect these data sources to be fully removed in v0.2.0.**

#### Addition of `dns-he-net_arpa_zone` & `dns-he-net_arpa_zones` data sources

New data sources are being added to retrieve ARPA zones in the account:
- `dns-he-net_arpa_zone`: This data source retrieves a single ARPA zone in the account, identified by its `zone_id`
- `dns-he-net_arpa_zones`: This data source retrieves all ARPA zones in the account

#### Addition of `dns-he-net_network_prefix` & `dns-he-net_network_prefixes` data sources

New data sources are being added to retrieve the delegated network prefixes in the account:
- `dns-he-net_network_prefix`: This data source retrieves a single delegated network prefix in the account, identified by its `id`
- `dns-he-net_network_prefixes`: This data source retrieves all delegated network prefixes in the account

## Usage example

Configure the [Hurricane Electric DNS Terraform Provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/SuperBuker/dns-he-net/latest)
to access your account. The 2FA seed can be obtained by exporting the current one or
regenerating the seed.

2FA authentication can only be performed once every 30 seconds, so this provider stores
in disk the latest retrieved authentication cookie. It's highly recommended to use an
`store_type="encrypted"` to avoid storing the cookie in plain text.

If no 2FA is being used, using `store_type="dummy"` is recommended.
Anyway, we always encourage using 2FA if it's available.

Using only username and password:

```terraform
# Configure the DNS Provider
provider "dns-he-net" {
  username = "john.smith@email.com"
  password = "123456"
  #store_type = "dummy"
}


# Retrieve zones
data "dns-he-net_domain_zones" "zones" {
}

# Create a DNS A record set
resource "dns-he-net_a" "record-a" {
  zone_id = data.dns-he-net_domain_zones.zones.zones[0].id
  domain  = "example.com"
  ttl     = 86400
  data    = "1.2.3.4"
}
```

Using also 2FA:

```terraform
# Configure the DNS Provider
provider "dns-he-net" {
  username   = "john.smith@email.com"
  password   = "123456"
  otp_secret = "JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP"
  store_type = "encrypted"
}


# Retrieve zones
data "dns-he-net_domain_zones" "zones" {
}

# Create a DNS A record set
resource "dns-he-net_a" "record-a" {
  zone_id = data.dns-he-net_domain_zones.zones.zones[0].id
  domain  = "example.com"
  ttl     = 86400
  data    = "1.2.3.4"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `password` (String, Sensitive) dns.he.net account password
- `username` (String) dns.he.net account username

### Optional

- `otp_secret` (String, Sensitive) dns.he.net OTP secret (optional)
- `store_type` (String) dns.he.net cache store type (optional)

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are very welcome.  
Please open an issue or a pull request in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/SuperBuker/dns-he-net) if you want to contribute.  
GitHub stars are also very appreciated. :)
